"And this is up to that this moment of death and dying is as we said yesterday. From the time we
got sicknesses that will lead to that situation.
Until these two elements forcefully trapped it, consciousness, movement, until that is the moment
of death and dying. Until that is the moment of death and dying."
"The moment you begin to experience or realize this organ nature as one of which I am talking about
, that is the beginning of the true nature of the Bardo."
"This is the Bardo of True Nature is now beginning."
"And again great meditations can see that status all actually reach enlightenment. Right there,
there is no more Bardos now going through. You reach the enlightenment right in that moment."
"But then those who were then recognized, then now we are going to continue the Bardo of True
Nature is coming."
"And the teachings say this genuine experience comes to everyone. From the great practitioners,
even the lowest state, insect can experience this clay-bling status."
"But a big duration is so small, how long it stays? Just instant. One may be instant, one second.
Sticks, too short."
"Short because again it just carries away with all this. It's just a short time."
"But good practitioners in this long time, practicing, this is not what you heard, such as Satness
Samadhi as we have been discussing."
"And such as Tichu we have been discussing, or Mahamudra Tichu, or the Paryaparamudra Tichu."
"This is, now we begin to see exactly as we learn, we practice it, and we will do it in a direct
philosophical status."
"There is nothing that has to be used in any reason, logic or anything. We will see that."
"See, and we catch that moment with our awareness, or ask what this is, and then, as I said, no
more partisan."
"We didn't recognize this, so then other vadu of the true natures began to come."
"This true vadu of the true natures come, as in Tichu said here, vadu of the true natures."
"Then many things will come. This all is our display of the mind."
"It's all appearance of our mind."
"Again, vadu of course, we always in the teachings said, and we know that, we kind of like, we
believe, we always believe."
"This vadu of the true natures, last forty-nine days, we may be think that."
"But this is not exactly forty-nine days."
"Mostly in the teachings said, this vadu of the true natures could be even just a few hours."
"Or even maybe days, not really long as."
"Even in the teachings said, for example, vadu of the substitute of Humbarana,"
"first day you will have that week, second day you will have this week, and this Dayana, that Day
ana."
"This is could be for the, I mean the teachings said, those great masters said, it can be for those
great practitioners."
"Can extend that now."
"But for just ordinary beings, this day is duration of your mental stabilization status."
"And there is many kind of way to call it in the teachings."
"Sometimes called cycle of the meditation, day of the cycle of the meditation, and cycle of the
time."
"And this is the cycle of the day, of the meditation."
"So it is individual, you see, the major individual stabilization of their sammas."
"Startled from whatever second and wherever they can hold or can maintain that stabilizer, that
count as one day."
"For the period of the meditation."
"So it is, for the most of the folk, those who don't have the really stabilization of the
concentration,"
"this true nature, vadu, is just could be very, very short."
"But of course you can't tell in the teachings that the individual is different, the elements and
so forth."
"They are different, so could be last like three days, or three days, but is not performed like
this, performed like this."
"It is short."
"But whatever that is, however, no matter what the duration is, then begin to now dawn."
"And it depends, again in the teachings, it depends on the individual's elements."
"Or individual, their color, their habit, and this, and that, it depends."
"But this first comes the song, big song, and this is life, and life."
"And this is, again, nature of our minds."
"It is token experience."
"It is expression of energy, of the ordinary nature of the samadhadvara,"
"man and woman, or ordinary nature of our elements."
"It's not really coming any from outside."
"They go here, in the teachings, they bend on it all, they bend on the terror and fear."
"They recognize that what even arises is self-appearance of the awareness."
"One's own, one's own appearance."
"It's your, our appearance."
"Again, we have to think, appearance, of course you all know this, appearance."
"Or perceptions, or conceptions."
"Perception and conception is not outside of the talk."
"That perception aspect is our own mind."
"That conception aspect of death is our own mind."
"That generally can ask you all this time, for example."
"When we see something, it's our mind."
"Truly all thinking of that scene is our mind."
"Thinking of unhealed is our own mind."
"That is truly, even in this lifetime, perception is our own mind."
"But in that time, definitely it's also our mind."
"It's like dream."
"Dream is not somebody else dreaming when we are dreaming."
"It's 100% our own dream when we dream."
"It's also totally personal."
However, nobody else dreaming is I dream, where I dream.
It's 100% my dream.
Similarly, that time, experience, no matter whatever,
it is our vision and our experience.
And this is coming, all those visions coming,
it's a reflection, power of the awareness,
power of what's old in the natural mind is coming out
because there is no bindage of any physical,
anything out is really open, on open matter,
matter in the open land.
Therefore, all those are coming.
And because also at that time, less now, habitability,
coming out of that old energy status,
not too much involvement of the habitability is there.
Still, all the habitability, emotion is almost a kind of like very lucky,
underprivileged.
It's there, but it's not active.
Therefore, all this is coming out.
But many times, not ever, many times we see as terrors,
that's clear to prepare that, and then we miss it.
But if we again see this is our own display of the mind,
or the awareness, or the expression, or clear light ministry,
and of our nature of the mind, then no more other powers.
You reach again to the Sambukai state of Dhamma.